website/integrations: add Jenkins docs (#7882)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/services/jenkins/index.md

---
title: Jenkins
---

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Jenkins

> > The leading open source automation server, Jenkins provides hundreds of plugins to support building, deploying and automating any project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Jenkins is open source automation server, with hundreds of plugins to support building, deploying, and automating any project.
```

Author: this is taken 1:1 from their webpage so I'll keep it as is

>
> -- https://www.jenkins.io/

## Preparation

The following placeholders will be used:

-   `jenkins.company` is the FQDN of the Service install.
-   `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik install.

> Create an application in authentik. Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

Reviewer: would be good to link to our docs on how to create a provider.

> Create an application in authentik. Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an OAuth2/OpenID provider with the following parameters:
```

Reviewer: I'd suggest you first have them create the provider, and then below create the app.

> -   Client Type: `Confidential`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Client Type**: `Confidential`
```

> -   Scopes: OpenID, Email and Profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Scopes**: OpenID, Email and Profile
```

> -   Signing Key: Select any available key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Signing Key**: Select any available key
```

> Note the Client ID and Client Secret values. Create an application, using the provider you've created above. Note the slug of the application you've created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the Client ID and Client Secret values for the provider. 

Next, create an application, using the provider you've created above. Note the slug of the application you create.
```

## Jenkins Configuration

> Navigate to the Jenkins plugin manager by navigating to **Manage Jenkins** then **Plugins** then **Available plugins**. Search for the plugin `oic-auth` in the search field, and install the plugin. Jenkins must be restarted afterwards to ensure the plugin is loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the Jenkins plugin manager: **Manage Jenkins** -> **Plugins** -> **Available plugins**. Search for the plugin `oic-auth` in the search field, and install the plugin. Jenkins must be restarted afterwards to ensure the plugin is loaded.
```

> After the restart, navigate to **Manage Jenkins** again, then clicking on **Security**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the restart, navigate to **Manage Jenkins** again, and click **Security**.
```

> Modify the **Security Realm** option and select `Login with Openid Connect`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the **Security Realm** option to select `Login with Openid Connect`.
```

> Fill the Client ID and Client Secret values from above into the respective **Client id** and **Client secret** fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Client id** and **Client secret** fields, enter the Client ID and Client Secret values from the provider you created.
```

Set the configuration mode to **Automatic configuration** and set the **Well-known configuration endpoint** to `https://authentik.company/application/o/<Slug of the application from above>/.well-known/openid-configuration`

Check the checkbox **Override scopes** and input the scopes `openid profile email` into the new input field.

Further down the page, expand the **Advanced** section and input the following values:

-   **User name field name**: `preferred_username`
-   **Full name field name**: `name`
-   **Email field name**: `email`
-   **Groups field name**: `groups`

> It is also recommended to enable the option **Enable Proof Key for Code Exchange** further down the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also recommend enabling the option **Enable Proof Key for Code Exchange** further down the page.
```

> Additionally, as a fallback to regain access to Jenkins in the case of misconfiguration, it is recommended to configure the **Configure 'escape hatch' for when the OpenID Provider is unavailable** option below. How to configure this option is beyond the scope of this document, and is explained by the OpenID Plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, as a fallback to regain access to Jenkins in the case of misconfiguration, we recommend configuring the **Configure 'escape hatch' for when the OpenID Provider is unavailable** option below. How to configure this option is beyond the scope of this document, and is explained by the OpenID Plugin.
```
